# Assignment 7 - Major Project Constraints
## Environmental
One major side effect of our project is an increased awareness for the efficiency of a user's vehicle. By providing a real-time user interface to display a variety of diagnostic data, a user will be more aware of how their driving habits impact different attributes. Moreover, many of these attributes give insights into environmental impacts that a vehicles emissions and performance will have. A major constraint on this project will be the ability to accurately and quickly measure such attributes to provide users with a clear understanding of vehicle performance. Thus, users will have the opportunity to understand how different driving tendencies can positively or negatively impact the environment.  
## Ethical
The ethical impact of this project most directly pertains to the analysis of diagnostic data from the vehicle. Due to the temperamental nature of most motor vehicle computer systems, any sub-par sensor performance can have catastrophic impacts on the vehicles performance and the safety of all passengers. Being able to safely read on-board diagnostic (OBD) data, without impacting any performance critical components of the vehicle is a major constraint of this project. If negative effects result from the use of the described system, the designers could be at fault for any related damages. Precautions that are being put in place to minimize this impact is the use of the read-only OBD II port of each vehicle. The mechanical safety constraints put in place through these components will eliminate any possibility of our software impacting the vehicle’s performance.
## Economic
The main economic constraint that concerns this project is the silicon shortages and our ability to source all necessary parts. Our project uses a Raspberry pi and many electronic parts that have been difficult to find recently. Due to this, we are making sure we get all parts as early as possible once all details of the project are finalized. We are also limited by the UC budget for the project, but we predict everything will be within this budget. As for economic development, this project will help big or small businesses keep track of their vehicle health to extend its life and provide valuable data to the company that can be used for optimizations.
## Security
The data collected by the OBD II connector will need to be securely transferred to the interface and to the online database for the vehicle. By ensuring security within this system, drivers are more likely to use it and understand that their data is protected. The latest Bluetooth versions will be used, and no connections can be made to the interface while the vehicle is off as it is only powered by the vehicle while it is running. This allows the user to make sure they are connected to the interface via their preferred method, Bluetooth, wired, or even a just send it through the attached cellular modem. The online database will be protected with usernames and passwords, with only certain user having access to more data on the vehicle, which would be the case for company vehicle fleets. 
